The number of ambulances there shows you.
Obviously, the concern for the well-being
of each of these individual hostages
being released right now There's Rafa.
Hang on.
There's a little girl
These are live pictures.
This is the first time
we're seeing that right now.
And for the first time,
we just saw a little girl
getting out of one of those ambulances
and walking into a building.
There
could have been that
that was one of the Israeli
hostages, the young children released
not long ago as part of this deal.
Yeah, John,
as we're
watching all of this play out
and waiting
for the identities of these hostages
to be confirmed by Israel,
which they says.
They say that they'll do
once they're safely back in Israel,
though,
we're watching several of them
get out of these emergency vehicles.
We're also learning
more about who they are.
And I'm told by an Israeli source
that most of these hostages,
not all of them,
we don't know that exactly,
but a majority of the hostages
that have been released
just now by Hamas
from Gaza are from Kibbutz near Oz.
And on October 7th,
that was a kibbutz
that saw a lot of devastation
in the October 7th attack.
I believe it was estimated that a quarter
of the population
of the several hundred people who lived
there were either murdered
or kidnaped into Gaza.
And they saw I mean,
it was the kibbutz
where they burned
basically the kindergarten to the ground.
They went into homes.
You heard the testimony from the people
who did survived that attack.
About just how devastating
it was that day
and how it's all some of the worst
violence on October 7th.
John, we're
now seeing, as
we're hearing that they are from Kibbutz
near Oz.
The majority of these hostages right now.
We are watching a line of people
now boarding.
They'd gone inside after getting out, now
getting onto a bus.
You can see an elderly woman
she is stepping
into that white bus
with assistance right here.
And you see a line of people behind her,
some men.
Another woman
we believe we saw a child
at the beginning of the line.
It's unclear
if it was the same child
that we saw earlier.
We know that we
have heard from Egyptian sources
that several of
the hostages
who are being released today,
not just those 13 Israeli
hostages also several
Thai nationals as well,
who were kidnaped by Hamas on that day.
And they appear to be boarding this bus
right in front of us John.
Yeah.
So again,
the question is, what's next is.
Yes.
13 Israeli
hostages, ten
Thai hostages, one Filipino hostage.
We saw a number of them,
but by no means
all boarding that bus right there.
Presumably, some are also receiving
medical care,
might be in the ambulances there.
We are told that the young girl
that we had seen
earlier was at the front of the line.
We're going to try to get a look
at that again.
But boarding that bus, we did clearly see
one child, some older women
and and then men.
Okay.
Let's see if we can see those
pictures again.
Let's take a look at
those pictures again.
At the front of the line there,
you saw a younger girl, an older woman.
Here's a different vantage point there.
A couple older women there
and now what appear to be
a number of the Thai hostages there.
Ten Thai hostages and one Filipino
hostage, perhaps boarding this bus.
That is the Rafah crossing.
We can't be sure where that bus will go,
but it's possible it will head not far.
You're talking about a mere number
of a small handful of kilometers
south to the Kerem Shalom crossing.
And from there,
it would enter Israel here in Egypt
right now.
This group of hostages there,
apparently the Thai men
and also perhaps
one Filipino hostage boarding that bus.
Caitlin, were earlier
we did see the first person to get on
was that girl, that young girl
that we saw.
Now free after 48 days
in captivity, what's next for this bus?
We are not sure.
But within the next several hours,
all of those
people, we
presume will be back inside Israel
Yeah, we believe the next stop for
that bus is going to be here in Israel
where
there is a number of hospitals
that are preparing to receive them.
I mean, they are
this reintegration process
that these hostages
are going to have to go through
isn't just
about their physical well-being,
these medical checkups,
but also
a meeting with a therapist and officials
here to
to talk
about what
they've seen, what they've experienced
in these 48 days
that they have been held.
These people have not known freedom
since October the seventh,
since they were kidnaped
by Hamas into Gaza, where we know from
at least two of the hostages
who were previously released.
They were in a complex
tunnel system underground.
And they had been underground for so long
that when they were released, John,
Light, natural light
sunlight shocked them because they just
hadn't seen it in so long.
And so that's the kind of mindset
that so many of these
these people that you're seeing now
have gone through where
I mean, there are major questions
about what else
those conditions looked like.
But we do know what we've heard
from other hostages
who have been released.
One thing that we were told is as soon as
these hostages, the Israeli hostages
at least made it to the border,
they were going to try to facilitate
a phone call with their family members.
They weren't able to immediately
be reunited with them,
but they at least wanted them
to have that moment,
to have that first conversation
with a loved one
that they have not been able
to have for so long.
And it just
a huge sigh of relief
for so many
of these families
to see this actually unfolding
and obviously still
waiting for them
to actually get here into Israel.
One of the places that we do
expect the hostages to go soon.
And that's the
that's a Reem Airbase
you can see inside Israel.
So Rafah here
and then presumably
they'll move somewhere back
into Israel,
either crossing here or here,
and then travel to the hot
Syrian air base.
That's where our Matthew Chance is
with the latest on what you're seeing.
Matthew,
That's right, John.
Here at
the Syrian air
base, preparations
have been underway for some time
to cater for this arrival,
this first stop in the arrival
of these 13 Israeli hostages,
perhaps the nationals
from Thailand,
in the Philippines as well,
although it's unclear
whether they will be coming
directly here as well.
We're trying to get clarification
on that.
But, yes, it's
going to be a sensitive operation.
You saw those people
heading towards
the bus in the
in the live video
that we've been watching.
And our understanding,
according to Israeli military officials
on the ground here at the airbase
that have been speaking to us,
saying that
the the plan at the moment
is for these hostages to be driven,
these freed hostages to be driven by road
in those both in busses to this airbase.
The reason they're doing that, they said,
is because
helicopter flights can be scary
and they don't want to further traumatize
anybody who hasn't been
on a helicopter before.
That's the reason
they said they're going to
drive them by road.
And so we'll see how that develops.
Obviously,
this is a fast changing
situation on the ground.
And that plan could change.
But whether they come here by bus
or whether they're flown here
in helicopters,
this is the place where we understand
they will be received by
you know, get initial checkups.
They'll be able to make phone calls
to their family members.
They'll be properly looked
at medically
and psychologically to assess
what their immediate needs are given food
and drinks,
a change of clothes,
if that's necessary as well.
It's not clear
whether they're
sitting in the same clothes,
for instance, that they were in
when they're abducted
so violently back on October the seventh.
So they're going to be looked at here.
There are also shower
facilities, things like that.
After that,
they're going to be loaded
onto helicopters and taken to various
hospitals around the country,
particularly close
to Tel Aviv,
depending on
what their exact medical needs
are now in terms of the timing on that.
Once the
the hostages,
if they come by road, once
they once
they get to the border of Israel,
it's going to take about an hour
because about 30 miles
away, a bit longer than that, perhaps
to the border,
getting a
where they come across to this base
and then they're going to be processed
for between half an hour and 2 hours
depending on their specific needs.
And so, you know where where they're
bracing ourselves for several hours now
before these people
sort of arrive here are processed,
and then
finally board
those helicopters
that are waiting for them here
and choppered to there
to the hospitals
elsewhere in the country.
But again,
a very sensitive, delicate and anxious
period underway right now.